Documentation for Developers:

Summary of project:
    As mentioned in the porject specs, hikers, runners, and cyclists often record their activites using a phone, fitness watch, or dedicated GPS device. They may upload data from their devices to a system like Strava, MapMyRun, or RideWithGPS, which typically provide analysis, map display, and optional social media sharing.
    Existing services like Strava provide a variety of analyses and record keeping, but they typically do not provide a fully automated way to extract turn-by-turn directions from a recorded activity. For hikers and runners and some cyclists who travel off-road, this might be very difficult … there may be no suitable database from which to extract suitable cues. For road cyclists, however, it should be possible to extract turn-by-turn directions (a “cue sheet”) from a recording.
    That is what our system will do. The input will be a record consisting of a sequence of (latitude, longitude) pairs, possibly with other information. The output should be a list of turn-by-turn directions, e.g.,
        0.0 km Start at 19th and Agate
        1.2km Left on Franklin Blvd
        1.4km Left on 11th Ave
  
Background Information:
    Geocoding:
        Geocoding means translating place names or descriptions into geographic coordinates, usually latitude and longitude.
    Reverse Geocoding:
        Geocoding translates addresses into coordinates. Reverse geocoding, as you might guess, translates coordinates to addresses.
    Web Services:
        A web application (or “web app”) is designed for use by humans. A web service is designed for use by programs. Often it will be called a “web api” or just “api” (application program interface). Sometimes it will be called a REST API or REST service. REST stands for “representational state transfer”, and describes an architectural style for web services and web applications.

Description:
    Input -> GPX file
    Output -> a list of turn by turn directions
    Process:
        We divded the MVP in 3 "chunks", and assigend each module to one person (except for module 2, which was assigned to two people):
            1. Parse_gpx (pathname to gpx file) -> pandas dataframe
                * opens gpx file, pulls out lat, long, and time from each trkpt, and stores it in a data structure
                * gpxpy and pandas are the main libraries used in this module.
            2. Filtered_data (pandas dataframe) -> pandas dataframe with only data points immediately before and after each turn, and with street names added
                * Explain how this works.
            3. Generate_directions (filtered pandas dataframe) -> csv file
                * generates turn-by-turn directions as a text file
                    ** calculates distance between each turn (UTM)
                         ** The library had a distance function which was applied to the data frame.
                    ** determines if it's a left or right turn (or straight ahead, but the street name changed
                          ** This was done by finding the angles between two points, if the angle was more than 20 Degrees it was classified as a turn.
                    ** writes this information to a csv file
         As for the remaining steps, we have the user interface.
         For the UI we decided to use Flask and Heroku:
                * We used the example code provided by Professor Michal Young to create our flask_main. We expect a gpx file from the user, which we will pass into our python program. 
                * 
     
               
                
